School leaver CV
A school leaver CV is an ideal format for young people who have just finished school or college and have little or no work experience. This CV template is also recommended for those just entering the world of work.

The ideal length of this CV should be 1 A4 page long.
The candidate should place a lot of emphasis on transferable skills, qualities and abilities rather than on work experience or qualifications.
Graduate CV
A graduate CV is an ideal format for university students, graduates and young professionals who possess at least an undergraduate degree and some work experience. This CV template is also the recommended format for most people.

The ideal length of this CV should be 2 A4 pages long.
Candidates should put a lot of focus on relevant qualifications, work experience or professional training.
Skills-based CV
A skills-based CV, also known as a functional CV, is an ideal format for candidates that do not have the relevant qualifications or work experience but do have transferable skills that could help them do the job well.

A lot of emphases should be put on skills, abilities and personal qualities that would be useful for the advertised role.
Each skill or quality needs to be backed up by real-world examples (i.e. how and where these skills were used in real-life situations).
Academic CV
An academic CV, as the name suggests, is a CV format that is used by teachers, researchers and academics. Academic CVs are used to apply for teaching or research positions and focus highly on academic merit and qualifications.

Unlike conventional CVs, they also have several additional sections dedicated to research interests, publications, conference presentations, teaching activities, awards and professional memberships.
There is no ideal length for this CV format because it largely depends on the candidate’s level of experience, education, seniority, etc. Typically, they are between 3-5 pages long.
BONUS: CV writing tips
1. Use short sentences and bullet points

It is important to remember that recruiters tend to scan CVs rather than read them in detail. Using short sentences and bullet points will improve the legibility and impact of your CV.

2. Select an appropriate font
The most common recommended fonts for writing a CV are Times New Romans (12 pt), Arial (11 pt), Verdana (11 pt) and Helvetica (12 pt).

3. Tailor your CV to the particular job
Each CV should be carefully amended and tailored to the job for which you are applying. Only include relevant information on your CV and use the same key phrases and terms as the job advertisement.

4. Use CV templates and examples
Some applicants make the mistake of writing their CV from scratch. You don’t have to reinvent the wheel! Be more time-efficient by using CV templates and CV examples for guidance and inspiration.

5. Get expert help & advice
Writing a perfect CV is an art! It is a good idea to have your CV checked out by careers professionals who are specialised in job applications.

Good luck!